All right, guys.
In this video, we're going to talk about divs and spans, which are both HTML elements or tags, as
well as ID and class attributes which are used for semantics to use to kind of separate content.
They're also used for CSS styling, which we're going to talk about in the next section.
So let's create a new file called zero nine Underscore and we'll just call it ID, Underscore Class
HTML, and we're going to put our structure, our boilerplate in here.
And for our title, we'll say div span ID in class.
So we've used Divs before.
We used it to separate our kind of our labels and inputs in the form and where we talked about forms.
So let's put a div in here and let's say that this is going to be the header of our website.
We have maybe an H one, say my website or maybe you have an image, a logo image and then we'll put
a paragraph that says like some kind of slogan.
We'll just say a site about me.
Now, since everything in this div pertains to the header, I'm going to give this an ID of header or
maybe even main header because you could have multiple headers, maybe you have an art, you have articles
on the page and you have headers for the articles.
So let's call this the main header.
All right?
And then underneath that, let's create a UL and let's give it some allies, some list items, and we'll
put some links inside here.
And let's say this goes this is the home page link.
I'm going to copy this down twice.
We'll say this is the about link goes to the about page.
This goes to, let's say contact.
So it's this is a navigation menu.
So let's give this UL an ID of let's call it main nav.
You can call whatever you want.
Now let's say underneath the navigation, we have an area that has some information about us or about
our page or whatever it may be.
So we'll have a div and let's give it an ID of a boat.
Now here I'm going to show you a very, very helpful Emmet trick.
So again, Emmet is installed with V's code and it allows us to do things faster.
So instead of typing out ID equals what we can do is we can say div and we can put just a number sign
which represents an ID, the word a boat and then tab or enter and it puts it in for us.
And then to take it a step further, if it's a div like we could do this with a with an H one, we could
give it an ID of about like that.
But if it's a div, we don't even have to write the word div.
We can simply just put a number sign and then a boat and then hit tab or enter and it will give us a
div with the ID of a boat.
So nice little tip there.
And again, you don't have to use it, but it will make you write your HTML much faster.
So let's say in this boat we have an H three, which is a heading we'll say about and then maybe a paragraph
with some text, we'll just generate some dummy text here and then maybe under that div we have, let's
say an area for, for our contact info.
And I know I haven't talked about spans or classes yet.
I'll get to that in a minute.
So let's create a div with the ID of contact.
And in here maybe we have another heading.
Remember, it's good, it's good practice to not have more than 1h1i don't think.
Well yeah we do have an H one which is in the header.
So every div here is using an H three as a title.
You could use an h two and again you could use an H one.
It's just good practice to just have one on the page.
So let's put a UL here.
We'll do some list items, we'll put like address 50 Main Street, Boston, Mass.
Let's put another list item with a phone.
And let's do another list item with an email.
Just say me at something cool dot com.
And then finally maybe we have a footer so we'll have a div here with actually we can just do ID footer
and we'll have a paragraph and let's just say copyright 20 older 2019 because it's the very end of 2018
right now.
All right.
So let's save this and take a look.
We'll open it with live server.
It's going to look very ugly because we have no CSS, but it's structured in a very common way.
So we have a header, we have the navigation, we have some some different sections about contact,
and then we have a footer at the bottom and we used IDs for all of these.
Now when it comes to CSS, we we can grab on to these IDs and we can styles these sections by their
ID, but we also have something called classes.
Now a lot of people get confused on when do I use an ID and when do I use a class?
And and the reason for that is there's no functional difference.
Like they don't behave any differently.
You can style them the same exact way, but it's good practice to always have your IDs, be individual,
meaning you're not going to have a main header ID anywhere else.
You're not going to go down here and have a main header ID.
You're not going to have another section on the page that has an idea of a boat.
So basically just one per ID now a class you can repeat.
So let's say we wanted to style like a border and a light grey background around the about and the contact
area.
We might have a class called card actually.
I'm going to add a CSS style up here and don't worry if you don't know what any of this is, I'm going
to do this later.
I'm going to show you this later, but I'm going to put a style that grabs on to the card class.
And we're going to add a class of card to both of the divs of a boat and contact.
So I did that backwards.
I want to do class equals card and then let's go down to the contact div right here and also give that
a class of card and let's save and now notice they both have the same styling so you can see the difference
here IDs they're individual to that that section but classes you can repeat so we can have as many cards
as we want.
If I wanted the header to have that same style excuse me, I could give that a class of card as well
and it would get that styling.
So that's the biggest difference between IDs and classes.
Now, some people, I mean, everyone's different.
Some people don't even use IDs.
They'll just use classes.
Like instead of doing this, you might see something like this, like class, main header and card both
in in both classes.
But I think that this is a better way to structure it.
But you'll come to find your own way of doing things.
But generally the most important thing is not to repeat IDs on the same page, at least.
All right.
So next, let's talk about divs and spans.
We've used quite a bit of divs here to separate out our content.
And the main difference between a div and a span is a div is a is a block level element.
It pushes the next thing down.
So let's say I had a style for let's, let's, let's do a class called enhance and let's say we want
the colour to be yellow and we want the background color to be black.
And I'm going to this is CSS, I'm going to go over this all in the next section.
And let's say we wanted to add it to a piece of text in this paragraph.
So if we use a div, if you say div class equals enhance.
And let's wrap this div.
Let's put it like right here and let's save it.
We get that styling, but it knocks it onto to the next next line.
It basically goes in between this line and this line.
This is a case where we want to use a span because a span is an inline element.
So let's grab this.
I'll highlight this div and do control D to grab the next one and just change them both to a span oc
save it and now notice that it's not it's not block level, it just stays in its place and we can still
add that styling.
So that's the difference between a span and a div.
For the most part, you're going to be using divs, but when you need it to be inline, you want to
use a span.
Now.
HTML five When it was released, it came out with something called semantic tags to better to better
lay out our sections.
So for instance, there's a header tag which we could use.
Instead of having to use an ID, we could use the actual header tag.
There's something called the nav tag we could use for navigation.
There's section tags for stuff like this and we're going to go over that soon.
But in the next video, I want to just quickly cover entities which are little symbols we can use in
HTML.
For instance, this copy right down here.
If we want to put a copyright symbol, we can do ampersand, copy, semicolon.
And if I go ahead and save that and now you'll see down here it actually gives us a little copyright
symbol.
So I want to talk a little bit about that in the next section before we move on to HTML five semantic
tags.